# Recommendation-system
In this project, we will build different types of Recommendation Systems for users. This not only gives us an overall view with various types of Recommendation Systems but also helps us choose the appropriate type of Recommendation System for the context.

1. **Demographic Filtering**:
   Starting with the simplest system based on user ratings for each movie, we can then recommend outstanding movies that users rate well and are trending.

2. **Content-Based Filtering**:
   Next is the more complex Recommendation System based on movie content, which allows us to recommend related movies to the ones users are currently watching or interested in.

3. **Collaborative Filtering**:
   Finally, we will build a Recommendation System based on user rating history for movies through the Collaborative Filtering method. Specifically, we will use a different method to address some weaknesses of Collaborative Filtering, which is Matrix Factorization. In this section, you will also be introduced to a new and extremely useful library for Recommendation Systems.

## Pipeline

1. Read the data.

2. Build Recommendation System using Demographic Filtering method.

3. Build Recommendation System using Content-Based Filtering method.

   - Build based on movie overview.
   
   - Build based on movie information including: director, main cast, keywords, movie genre.

4. Build Recommendation System using Collaborative Filtering method with SVD.

## Dataset Explaination

**credits** includes the following features:

- **movie_id**: the id of the movie.
- **cast**: the names of the main and supporting actors.
- **crew**: the names of the crew members involved in the movie production (director, editor, composer, etc.).
- **title**: the title of the movie.

**movies** includes the following features:

- **budget**: the budget for making the movie.
- **genre**: the genres of the movie.
- **homepage**: the link to the movie's homepage.
- **id**: information about the movie_id as in the tmdb_5000_credits dataset.
- **keywords**: keywords or tags related to the movie.
- **original_language**: the language used in the movie.
- **original_title**: the original title of the movie before translation or adaptation.
- **overview**: a brief description of the movie.
- **popularity**: an indication of the movie's popularity.
- **production_companies**: the production companies of the movie.
- **production_countries**: the production countries of the movie.
- **release_date**: the date when it was released.
- **revenue**: the worldwide revenue generated by the movie.
- **runtime**: the duration of the movie in minutes.
- **status**: Released or rumored.
- **tagline**: the tagline of the movie.
- **title**: the title of the movie.
- **vote_average**: the average rating received by the movie.
- **vote_count**: the number of votes.
